README.md, before:

# Corese-GUI-Swing

[![License: CECILL-C](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CECILL--C-blue.svg)](https://cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL-C_V1-en.html) [![Discussions](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discussions-GitHub-blue)](https://github.com/orgs/corese-stack/discussions)

Corese-GUI-Swing is the graphical user interface for the Corese platform, providing a user-friendly environment to interact with RDF data, perform SPARQL queries, and visualize the results.

## Features

- Interactive interface for RDF data manipulation.
- SPARQL querying and result visualization.
- SHAQL validation and result display.
- Rule-based reasoning and inference.
- STTL transformation and visualization.
- LDScript execution.
- RDF graph visualizer.

## Getting Started

### Download and Install

You can run Corese-GUI-Swing using Flathub or by downloading and executing the JAR file.

**Flathub:**

To install Corese-GUI-Swing via Flathub, use the following command:

``` bash
flatpak install flathub fr.inria.corese.CoreseGui
```

To run the application:

``` bash
flatpak run fr.inria.corese.CoreseGui
```

For more information, visit the [Flathub page](https://flathub.org/apps/details/fr.inria.corese.CoreseGui).

**JAR File:**

You can also download the latest version of the Corese-GUI-Swing JAR from the [releases page](https://github.com/corese-stack/corese-gui-swing/releases) and run it with the following command:

``` bash
java -jar corese-gui-swing-4.5.0.jar
```

## Documentation

Explore the available documentation to help you get started with Corese-GUI-Swing:

- [Getting Started Guide](https://corese-stack.github.io/corese-gui/v4.5.0/getting_started/getting_started_with_corese-gui.html)
- [API Documentation](https://corese-stack.github.io/corese-gui/v4.5.0/java_api/library_root.html)

## Contributions and Community

We welcome contributions to improve Corese-GUI-Swing! Here’s how you can get involved:

- **Discussions:** If you have questions, ideas, or suggestions, please participate in our [discussion forum](https://github.com/orgs/corese-stack/discussions).
- **Issue Tracker:** Found a bug or want to request a new feature? Use our [issue tracker](https://github.com/corese-stack/corese-gui-swing/issues).
- **Pull Requests:** We accept pull requests. You can submit your changes [here](https://github.com/corese-stack/corese-gui-swing/pulls).

## Useful Links

- [Corese Official Website](https://corese-stack.github.io/corese-gui-swing/v4.5.0/index.html)
- **Mailing List:** <corese-users@inria.fr>
- **Join the Mailing List:** Send an email to <corese-users-request@inria.fr> with the subject: `subscribe`

Commit message:

docs: Add developer setup instructions for code formatting

README.md, after:

# Corese-GUI-Swing

[![License: CECILL-C](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CECILL--C-blue.svg)](https://cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL-C_V1-en.html) [![Discussions](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discussions-GitHub-blue)](https://github.com/orgs/corese-stack/discussions)

Corese-GUI-Swing is the graphical user interface for the Corese platform, providing a user-friendly environment to interact with RDF data, perform SPARQL queries, and visualize the results.

## Features

- Interactive interface for RDF data manipulation.
- SPARQL querying and result visualization.
- SHAQL validation and result display.
- Rule-based reasoning and inference.
- STTL transformation and visualization.
- LDScript execution.
- RDF graph visualizer.

## Getting Started

### For Developers

**First time setup** - Install automatic code formatting:
```bash
./install-formatting.sh
```
This ensures consistent code formatting across the team. See [CODE_FORMATTING.md](CODE_FORMATTING.md) for details.

### Download and Install

You can run Corese-GUI-Swing using Flathub or by downloading and executing the JAR file.

**Flathub:**

To install Corese-GUI-Swing via Flathub, use the following command:

``` bash
flatpak install flathub fr.inria.corese.CoreseGui
```

To run the application:

``` bash
flatpak run fr.inria.corese.CoreseGui
```

For more information, visit the [Flathub page](https://flathub.org/apps/details/fr.inria.corese.CoreseGui).

**JAR File:**

You can also download the latest version of the Corese-GUI-Swing JAR from the [releases page](https://github.com/corese-stack/corese-gui-swing/releases) and run it with the following command:

``` bash
java -jar corese-gui-swing-4.5.0.jar
```

## Documentation

Explore the available documentation to help you get started with Corese-GUI-Swing:

- [Getting Started Guide](https://corese-stack.github.io/corese-gui/v4.5.0/getting_started/getting_started_with_corese-gui.html)
- [API Documentation](https://corese-stack.github.io/corese-gui/v4.5.0/java_api/library_root.html)

## Contributions and Community

We welcome contributions to improve Corese-GUI-Swing! Here’s how you can get involved:

- **Discussions:** If you have questions, ideas, or suggestions, please participate in our [discussion forum](https://github.com/orgs/corese-stack/discussions).
- **Issue Tracker:** Found a bug or want to request a new feature? Use our [issue tracker](https://github.com/corese-stack/corese-gui-swing/issues).
- **Pull Requests:** We accept pull requests. You can submit your changes [here](https://github.com/corese-stack/corese-gui-swing/pulls).

## Useful Links

- [Corese Official Website](https://corese-stack.github.io/corese-gui-swing/v4.5.0/index.html)
- **Mailing List:** <corese-users@inria.fr>
- **Join the Mailing List:** Send an email to <corese-users-request@inria.fr> with the subject: `subscribe`
